---
title: How to use the checking tools (1.4)
---
Paratext has several tools for checking the consistency and accuracy of a translation. These Checks are listed in the My Tasks view in the Assignments and progress window. Some checks require some set-up.

It is important to correct any problems with chapter and verse markers, so Paratext can show exactly where problems are found.

You do not need to have finished drafting a book before you start looking at the issues.

## To view Chapter/Verse Number issues

-   Click the issue count.

    Paratext lists the items in a window panel.

-   Close the **Assignments and progress window**.

    You may need to adjust your window layout to view the issues and the translation in a convenient way.

-   Double click an issue

    Paratext moves to that reference.

### Typical issues

-   **Duplicated verse**: This can often be due to an error later in this chapter.
-   **Verse Number in heading** : When there is a section heading followed by a cross reference heading, you need to add a paragraph before the verse number (e.g. \\p).
-   **Verse Missing** :
-   Is there a space between the v and the verse number? If not add a space.
-   Is there is a space after the verse number? If not, add a space.
-   Is there a space after the \\? If so, delete it.
-   Click **Rerun**, click **Yes** to save the changes.

Next time you open the Assignments and Progress dialog it will display the up-to-date number of issues left to be dealt with for this check.

## To run the checks without a project plan

-   Open the menu for the **project** and under Tools, click **Run Basic Checks**.
-   Click **OK** to run the selected checks.

    Paratext lists the items in a window panel as before.

There will be a Verses Missing issue shown for a span of text that hasn’t been drafted yet.

**Rerun** the check whenever you want to remove resolved issues from the list.

## P9 - 1A.7a Character Inventory

In this video we will learn how to tell Paratext which characters it has found in the text are valid and which are invalid. This set-up task is required for the **Character Check**.

Before Paratext can check that the team has only used characters which are relevant for this project,

someone needs to tell Paratext what the valid characters are!

-   Any character in the language settings dialog is automatically marked as valid.
-   If a significant proportion of characters are new and no one has yet marked if they are valid or invalid, the Assignments and Progress dialog will show “Set up Required” next to that check.
-   It may be that you deal with all the unknown characters in one book and later find you need to deal with a few more when you move on to check the next book.

## To set up the characters check

-   In the Assignments and progress window, click “**Set Up Required**”.

    The Characters Inventory opens.

Here you can tell Paratext whether characters are valid or invalid for this project.

-   Select a character.
-   Review where it is used
-   Click the relevant button: **Valid**, **Invalid** or **Unknown**.

## Change the status of multiple characters

-   Click the first character
-   Use shift with your second click.
-   To save the changes, click **OK**.

If sufficient characters have been marked as valid or invalid,

the Assignments and Progress dialog will now show the number of issues in the current book.

## To re-open the Characters Inventory

-   Open the **menu for the project**.
-   **Expand** the menu.
-   Hover the mouse over **Checking Inventories.**
-   Click **Characters Inventory**.

    The Characters Inventory re-opens.

## P9 - 1A.7b Punctuation Inventory

In this video we will learn how to tell Paratext which uses of punctuation marks that it has found in the text are valid and which are invalid. This set-up task is required for the **Punctuation Check**.

Before Paratext can check that the team has only used punctuation correctly someone needs to tell Paratext what the valid use of punctuation marks is in this project!

-   We need to inform Paratext not only whether a punctuation mark is a **valid** **character** or not, but what the **valid and invalid ways** of using each one are, in terms of the surrounding words or spaces.
-   If Paratext finds a significant proportion of punctuation usage patterns are new and no one has yet marked if they are valid or invalid, the Assignments and Progress dialog will show “Set up Required” next to the check.
-   It may be that you deal with all the unknown punctuation patterns in one book and later find you need to deal with a few more when you move on to check the next book.

## To set up the Punctuation check (Administrators)

-   Click “**Set Up Required**”.

    The Punctuation Inventory opens.

Each punctuation pattern is marked as either **valid**, **invalid** or **unknown**.

The same punctuation character will be listed twice if it occurs in two contexts.

The underscore character (_) represents a space.

With **Show Sequences unchecked**, other punctuation is ignored when the punctuation patterns are analysed.

-   Select a punctuation pattern.
-   Review where it is used
-   Click the relevant button: Valid, Invalid or Unknown.

## Change the status of several punctuation patterns at once

-   Click the first character
-   Use shift with your second click.

Sorting and filtering are useful ways to examine the punctuation.

-   To save the changes, click OK.

If sufficient punctuation patterns have been marked as valid or invalid, the Assignments and Progress dialog will now show the number of punctuation issues in the current book.

## To re-open the Punctuation Inventory

-   Open the menu for the project.
-   Expand the menu.
-   Hover the mouse over Checking Inventories.
-   Click Punctuation Inventory.

## Show sequences

It is recommended that you start working on the punctuation inventory with the **Show sequences** box unchecked.
