---
title: 14. PD - Printing Drafts
---
**Introduction**  
In this module you will learn how to print a draft of your translation for checking and revising.

**Where we are**  
You have entered and checked your translation in Paratext 9 and are now ready to print out a copy. Your project must be registered before you can print.

**Why this is important**  
It is much easier to revise and check your work on paper than on the computer. You can also give it to more people if it is on paper.

**What you are going to do**  
You will first produce a PDF version of your translation, which you can print or share with others (including non-Paratext users). If necessary, you can copy the PDF file onto your USB stick and take it to a computer with a printer.


----
### 14.1 Create a PDF file
:::caution
Make sure you have completed the markers check before printing a draft.
:::

-  **≡ Tab**, under **Project** \> **Export Draft PDF**
-  Check that your project is selected.
-  Choose which book(s) and chapters or priority to print
-  Choose the page settings as follows:
-  Page size:
   -  210mm, 297mm (A4) or  
   -  148mm, 210mm (A5)
-  Columns: 1
-  Margins:  
   -  25 mm (for A4) or  
   -  12 mm (for A5)
-  Text body font: Charis SIL (or Charis SIL Compact)
-  Size: 10 (or 11)
-  Line spacing:  
   -  1.0 (for single spacing)
-  Click on the **Advanced** tab
-  Choose the fonts
-  Choose what you want in the **Running header** (the text at the top of the page).
-  Check **mirror layout on odd and even pages**
-  Make any other choices as needed.
-  Click **OK** and wait, the file will open in your PDF reader.  
   -  *If there are marker errors, a message box will appear*. 
   -  Click **No**, then correct the errors and try again.

:::tip
The first time you print a draft it takes a long time collecting information on the fonts. But it will be much quicker the next time.
:::



----
### 14.2 Print a PDF
In Adobe Reader

-  (Make sure the PDF file is open.)
-  **File** \> **Print**
-  For A5
   -  Choose **Booklet**
   -  Orientation: **Portrait** (for newer printers or landscape for older printers especially Win7)
-  To print double-sided
    - Click on the **Printer Properties** button
      - *A dialog is displayed which will may be different but will have a way of setting double-sided.* For example
      - Click on **Finishing**
      - Choose **duplex** or **two sided**.
      - Click **OK**
- Click **Print**

:::tip
If you want to follow a punctuation system (such as French) and have spaces automatically inserted before complex punctuation, then see a consultant to have changes made to your PrintDraftChanges.txt
:::



----
### 14.3 Copy PDF file to a USB stick
:::info
Paratext saves the PDF file in the PrintDrafts folder of your project folder. For example, C:\\My Paratext 9 Projects\\XXX\\PrintDraft
:::
:::tip
There are many ways to copy files. One method is described below.
:::
-  Hold the Windows Key and type **E**  
   -  *Windows Explorer opens.*
-  Go to your **My Paratext 8 Projects** folder.
-  Double-click on your project folder
-  Double-click the **PrintDraft** folder
-  Right-click on the desired PDF file
-  Choose **Send to**
-  Choose your USB stick.

----