---
title: 6. IR - Installing Resources
sidebar_position: 9
---
**Introduction**  
In this module you will learn how to install resources.

**Before you start**  
You have already installed Paratext 9 and have registered a user.

**Why is this important?**  
In Paratext 9, the resources are downloaded from the DBL (Digital Bible Library). Each user can download them directly, but if your Internet connection is limited, you can share the downloaded files with other users.

**What will you do?**  
1. Download resources from the Internet.
1. Install resources from a downloaded file.

## 6.1 Install resources – Internet (DBL)

1. Click the **≡ Paratext** menu, then under Paratext, choose **Download/Install resources**
	- _A dialogue box is displayed_
1. Make sure **Internet** has been chosen.
1. Filter the list by typing in the **filter box** (type name or language or + for enhanced resources)
1. Click the check box to the left of the desired resources.
1. Click **Download/Install**

#####  

## 6.2 Installer resources – from files
1. After downloading the resources, copy the downloaded files from your **\My Paratext 8 Projects\_Resources** to a USB key or network drive.
1. On the other computer, if use USB, insert the USB key.
1. Click the **≡ Paratext** menu, then under Paratext, choose **Download/Install resources**
	- *A dialogue box is displayed*
1. Click **Folder**
1. Click **Browse**.
1. Go to the folder which contains the downloaded resource files.
1. Select the desired resources.
1. Click **Download/Install**
    - The files are copied to the _Resources folder and should be available to open.
