---
title: 8. SPS - Setting up a project for success
sidebar_position: 11
---
Things to consider:

**It is a dynamic process**  
1. When a project is brand new, there aren’t a lot of settings that can be fixed in concrete.
1. As the project matures some of the inventories begin to make sense.

**Who is working on the project?**  
1. Setup the Users, Roles and Permissions
1. Would it be helpful to have a “Simplified Menu”?

**Do you need to customize the settings?**  
1. custom.sty
1. change settings of the stylesheet
1. names of markers (in other languages)
1. colour to help identify features?
1. custom.vrs
1. identify verses that are different from default versification

**What orthography will be used?**  
1. Put the orthography in the language settings.
1. (Keep in mind that what you put in the language settings could be going to the “Speech and Language Data Repository”

**How will the characters be keyed?**  
1. Keyman/MSKLC
1. AutoCorrect.txt

#####  
**What Quotation system will be used?**  
1. Set up the quotation rules (Dynamic)
1. Think about your rules
1. Test what you have
1. Adjust the rules
1. Make corrections to the rules / or text as necessary

**When you have some text data:**  
1. Begin setting up the inventories
1. Let’s start at the very beginning (Characters)
1. Look for options in the inventories!
1. Is the item valid all the time? Or just in certain situations?

**Scripture Reference Settings**  
1. What book names are you using?
1. What is the format for a reference?
1. Where will you put the origin of notes?

