---
title: How to use the checking tools (1.4)
---
Paratext has several tools for checking the consistency and accuracy of a translation. These Checks are listed in My Tasks view in the Assignments and progress window. Some checks require some set-up.

:::caution
It is important to correct any problems with chapter and verse markers, so Paratext can show exactly where problems are found.
:::
:::tip
You do not need to have finished drafting a book before you start looking at the issues.
:::

### To view Chapter/Verse Number issues

1.  Click the issue count.  
     -  *Paratext lists the items in a window panel*.
1.  Close the **Assignments and progress window**.

You may need to adjust your window layout to view the issues and the translation in a convenient way.
-  Double-click an issue  
   -  *Paratext moves to that reference*.

### Typical issues

-  **Duplicated verse**: This can often be due to an error later in this chapter.
-  **Verse Number in heading** : When there is a section heading followed by a cross-reference heading, you need to add a paragraph before the verse number (e.g. \\p).
-  **Verse Missing** :
   -  Is there a space between the v and the verse number? If not add a space.
   -  Is there is a space after the verse number?
   -  Is there a space after the \\? If so, delete it.
-  Click **Rerun**, click **Yes** to save the changes.

Next time you open the Assignments and Progress dialog it will display the up-to-date number of issues left to be dealt with for this check.

### To run the checks without a project plan

1.  Open the menu for the **project** and under Tools, click **Run Basic Checks**.
1.  Click **OK** to run the selected checks.  
    -  *Paratext lists the items in a window panel*.

There will be a Verses Missing issue shown for a span of text that hasn’t been drafted yet.

**Rerun** the check whenever you want to remove resolved issues from the list.

