---
title: USM book names (5.1)
---

In this video we learn about some special USFM markers which contain different versions of the name of the Bible book for various purposes.

## USFM markers

**\\h** marker is the top of page header. Before publishing, each book must have the \\h marker.

**\\toc1** contains the long or complete name of the book. It is often used to populate the Table of Contents (TOC).

**\\toc2** contains a shorter version of the book name.

**\\toc3** contains the abbreviation of the book name. It is often used in references.

**\\mt** contains the major title of the book and can be in up to four parts mt1-4 so you can format different parts of the title differently.

## Scripture Reference Settings

The book names are entered in the Scripture Reference Settings dialog on the Books Names tab.

This is also where an administrator can choose how these three names are used in the project.

## Conflict between \\toc and Scripture reference settings

Paratext automatically keeps the book names table and the project file up-to-date no matter where a name is added.

However, if a name is edited and a conflict arises, Paratext will inform you of it when you open the Scripture Reference Settings.

An administrator can click Resolve Conflicts to view the problems and decide which version to use.

## Create new book

If the book names have already been entered, Paratext automatically inserts the name-related markers and appropriate book names. It also adds to \\h markers containing toc2

## Adding markers manually

The \\h marker should be inserted directly after the id marker at the beginning of the book.

Then the TOC markers should be entered in reverse order (3, 2, 1).

After send/receive, the \\toc markers and the book names will be automatically added to the book.

You will just need to add the \\h marker manually, after the id marker.

