---
title: Producing Interlinear glosses in Paratext (3.3)
---
The Paratext Interlinearizer aligns equivalent words in two languages using statistics. The accuracy of the scripture translation can not be judged based on the output of the statistical tool alone.

In the video we interlinearized Matthew 14:16.

### Open the interlinearizer

1.  Click on the **menu for the project**.
1.  **Expand** the menu.
1.  Under **Tools**, click **Interlinearizer**.  
    -  *The Interlinearizer dialog box opens*.
1.  The Text to Interlinearize contains the name of the translation project.  
   > *If the correct project is not shown in the box, close the dialog and make sure you use the menu in the correct window*.
5.  For the model text we are going to use the back translation we have already made, the PTBTP project.
1.  Click on **OK**.  
    -  *It may take Paratext a while to do the calculations and make guesses*.

When all the glosses in the verse are red, it shows they are guesses. Because they are only guesses, we need to make sure that they are right.

:::tip 
It is not necessary to click on each word to approve each gloss. We only need to look for any glosses that are not correct.
:::
### Add a gloss

1.  Click on the red line where the gloss would be
1.  Type in the gloss
1.  Click **Enter**.  
    -  *The word appears in black*.

The black color means this gloss has been chosen or approved for this word in this verse.

### Correct a gloss

1.  **Click** the gloss  
    -  *Paratext shows the list of guesses it has made for this word*
1.  Then **choose** the gloss from the list.
-  OR **Type** in the correct gloss

### Approve Glosses

When everything is correct,

1.  Click **Approve Glosses**  
    -  *Paratext will approve all the others that are still in red and move to the next verse*.

### Colors of Glosses

1. The **red** glosses have not been approved.
1. The **blue** color means that gloss is approved for that word in a different verse.
1. The **black** glosses have been approved in this verse.

### Break up (parse) words

For instance, ‘breads’ is a noun with a plural suffix on it.

1.  Click on the word (not the gloss but the word)  
    -  *Paratext shows the word parse link*.
1.  Click the word parse link
1.  Divide the word using a space to separate affixes and add a + at the beginning of the suffix to mark it as a suffix.

See the Help for more details.

1.  Add a gloss for each part
1.  Add a gloss for the whole word.

### Link words together to gloss as a unit

1.  Move the mouse between two of the words.  
    -  *A little chain image appears, that is split in two*.
1.  Click the chain image  
    -  *The chain image unites, and the two words are now linked*.
1.  Continue for all words of the phrase.
1.  Enter a gloss for each word and for the whole phrase.

You can learn more about the interlinearizer tool in the Help file.
