---
title: Reference check (3.4a)
---
The reference in a parallel passage heading or a cross-reference has an icon beside it. When you click on the icon, Paratext opens a Quick Reference window to that passage.

### Problem with reference

1. If there is a problem with the reference, the icon has a **red X** on it.
1. Hover over the red X, 
    - a description of the problem is shown.

### Scripture reference settings
:::caution 
Only project administrators can change these settings.
:::
1. Open the menu for the project.
1. Expand the menu.
1. Hover over **Project Settings** and click **Scripture Reference settings**.   
   - *Three tabs are displayed: Reference Format shows the punctuation and Book names*.  

### To view a list of the errors

*From the Assignment and progress*

-  Click the number of issues beside the check.  
   -  *Paratext opens a panel showing the reference errors*.

**Using the menu**

1. Open the menu for the project.
1. Under **Tools**, click **Run Basic Checks**.
1. Select the check and the Books to check.
1. Click **OK**.

### View an error

-  Double-click the item in the list.  
   -  *The project window scrolls to show the error and selects the part Paratext finds problematic*.

### Common errors

You might need to refer to the project’s **Scripture Reference Settings** to see what is valid for your project so that you can correct the errors.

- **Invalid chapter/verse separator**  
  - The separator is often either a period (full stop) or a colon between the chapter number and the verse number.
  -  Correct the character.  
      - *When Paratext recognizes that the error is fixed, the **red x** on the icon goes away*.

-  **Invalid verse separator**
    -  The separator is usually either comma (with or without a space).
    - For a **range of verses**, use the range of verses separator, which, is usually a hyphen.

- **Invalid book**  
    - In the book names tab, you set three names for each book: the long name, the short name, and an abbreviation.
    -  Set the names to be used for \\xt field and parallel references.
    -  Edit the book name.  
        - *The error goes away*.

- **Invalid verse separator**

    -  Errors for this problem can be harder to see.
    -  Check the separator character and any spaces.



### Other Possible Errors

-  Paratext only checks for references in \\r, \\ior, \\x, \\xo, \\xt, \\fr.
-  Other markers are not checked. A way to spot that a marker isn’t being checked is to notice when the reference icon is **missing**.

