---
title: Interlineariser - How to use (3.3b)
---

In this video we will learn how to use the interlinearizer - how to add glosses, change glosses, and gloss a phrase. We will also see how to gloss morphemes and control if the morphology line is displayed.

### Reopen a previous interlinear text

1. To open the interlinearizer, click on the menu for the project you need to interlinearize.
2. Expand the menu.
3. Under Tools, click Interlinearizer.
    - The Interlinearizer dialog box opens.
    - The last interlinear that was worked on is selected for us in the Choose dropdown.
4. Click OK to open this interlinear.
    - The interlinearizer window opens.
    - The top line, shown in black, is the project text.

Red glosses are guesses. They are not reliable.

Blue glosses are more reliable suggestions as they are based on work done be a person.

We need to approve the coloured glosses if they are right, and correct them if they are wrong.

The most efficient way to work is to fix any incorrect or missing glosses and then approve all the correct ones in one step using the **Approve Glosses** button.

This button also moves us to the next verse.

### To change a gloss

1. Click the gloss.
    - A list of possible glosses is shown.
    - The previously approved glosses are shown at the top in black, and any guessed glosses that no one has approved yet are shown in red.
2. We can click one of those or type a new gloss in the box.
3. To save it, click enter or press the **Enter** key on the keyboard.
    - The gloss is shown in black, which indicates it is approved.
    - *The other places where the word occurs, now display a little plus sign next to their gloss.*
    - This indicates that there is more than one gloss that has been approved for this word.

### Link words together to join as a phrase

1. To link the words together, hover the mouse between the words.
    - *An icon appears with the tooltip “Link words”.*
2. Click it.
    - A chain link icon is now displayed permanently between those words. And an extra line is now shown for the gloss of the phrase below the glosses for each word.
3. Click the red line below the 3 word glosses and type the gloss for the phrase.

Note: If you make a mistake and need to unlink words in a phrase, click the chain link icon.

### Break a word into morphemes

We can also break words up into smaller units of meaning in the interlinearizer, and gloss each part as well as the whole word.

Show word parses

- To control whether it is showing or not, click on the **menu** for the interlinearizer window.
- Under **View**, there is an option **Show Word Parses.**
    - *This has a tick or check mark if the line is displayed.*
    - *An extra gap is inserted between the words and their glosses, and existing word parses are shown if they have been entered previously.*

### Break up a vernacular word into morphemes

1. Click the word itself.
2. In the menu that appears, click **Add Word Parse**.
3. Add the characters needed to divide up the word.
  - The space breaks up the morphemes and the plus shows which part is an affix.
4. Click **OK**.
5. I can now add a gloss for each part of the word, 
6. Also add a gloss for the whole word.

### Hide the word parses line
You can hide the line and make the words and their glosses appear close together

- Click the menu for the interlinearizer window.
- Under **View**, click **Show Word Parses**.
  - *The morphology information is hidden, and the word glosses are shown directly under the words they refer to.*

### Approve remaining glosses

When you have finished editing the glosses for this verse you can  approve all the remaining guesses and suggestions

- Click **Approve Glosses**.
  - *This also moves us on to the next verse.*

### Choose alternative gloss

If a word has more than one approved gloss, and by that we mean a gloss that a person has said is right for this word, then you see a little plus sign next to the gloss.

- Click the gloss with a plus sign
  - *The list has the two or more approved glosses in black at the top of the list.*
- Choose the desired gloss.

### Editing glosses – deleted wrong gloss

If a gloss is wrong, not just in this context but in any context for this word,

- Click the x to delete it.
  - All occurrences of this word that had been set to use this gloss will use the other gloss as a suggestion instead.
- Click **OK** to proceed with the deletion.

### Editing glosses – correct spelling

If a gloss is spelled wrong,

- Click the **edit**
  - This will edit this gloss wherever it is already used.

### Navigate to other verses

- When you use Approve Glosses button to move to the next verse, all the glosses are shown in black.
- If you navigate forward without the Approve glosses only the glosses that were changed are black.