---
title: SpellCheck RedSquiggles (2.1f)
---
You can choose to see words which have undecided or incorrect spelling status highlighted with a squiggly underline.

### How display spelling errors

1.  Open the **menu for the project**.
1.  Under **View**, click **Display Spelling Errors**.  
    - *Words which are not known to be correct are now highlighted with a squiggly underline*.
-  OR click Display spelling on toolbar.

### Red squiggles

A red squiggle is displayed on words which are incorrect or which Paratext calculates are probably incorrect.

### Grey squiggles

Grey indicates that Paratext doesn’t know anything about the spelling status and can’t work out if it is suspicious.
-   *These words are all undecided*.



### Record the correct spelling

If a spelling is wrong, it is helpful to have Paratext record what the correction is.

1.  Right-click the word.  
    -  *The Correct Spelling dialog opens*.
1.  Select one of the suggested spellings or type in the **Correct Spelling** box.
1.  To make the change click **OK**.  
    -  *Paratext saves the new spelling as correct, sets the old spelling to incorrect, saves the correction AND offers to make the changes to the old spelling*.
### Remove the squiggle

1.  Right-click the word.  
    -  *The Correct Spelling dialog opens*.  
1.  Click **OK**. 
    -  *Paratext saves the new status and removes the squiggle*.



### Right-click menu

-  Right-click a squiggle a second time to get the menu
-  If you wanted the Correct Spelling dialog, simply right-click the word again.
-  Right-click the word, choose Spelling to open the Correct Spelling dialog for this word.
